标题: Aerial event inspires students' space dreams
网址: http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/m/2016jilin/2018-04/25/content_36091139.htm

Aerial event inspires students' space dreams

Students of all ages in Changchun, capital of Jilin province, are inspired by China's space achievements and expressed their willingness to study the science and contribute to the field at an aviation event on the China Aerospace Day on April 24.The event, held by the Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics and Physics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, included several sections such as a display of many sophisticated devices like the hyperspectral imager installed on Tiangong-1 and the mapping camera on Tianhui-1, and lectures on space-related issues given by professional space researchers.Ji Hong, deputy Party secretary of the institute, said the event showed Jilin's innovative contributions to China's space program.Yuan Rui, a junior at Changchun University of Science and Technology, said he was inspired by the models of the devices, which will be helpful to his further study.Yuan Rui says he is inspired by the models of the devices, which will be helpful to his further study. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]Besides the college students, pupils of the elementary department of Changchun Foreign Language Experimental School also attended the event.Lv Jiarui, a third-year student, said she learned a lot about space and that the stories of the scientists behind the technological achievements instilled in her a dream to be a part of the space development.A staff member of the institute speaks about the development of China's space program to the primary students at the event on April 24. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]China Aerospace Day, April 24, has been celebrated since 2016 to remember the achievements China has made in aerospace fields. The Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics and Physics is the only unit holding the sub-event within the province.According to the institute's staff, it will be open to the public on May 19 showing more advanced space devices.On that day, academicians will give public lectures.A lecture on space issues is held during the event on April 24. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]

Students of all ages in Changchun, capital of Jilin province, are inspired by China's space achievements and expressed their willingness to study the science and contribute to the field at an aviation event on the China Aerospace Day on April 24.

The event, held by the Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics and Physics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, included several sections such as a display of many sophisticated devices like the hyperspectral imager installed on Tiangong-1 and the mapping camera on Tianhui-1, and lectures on space-related issues given by professional space researchers.

Ji Hong, deputy Party secretary of the institute, said the event showed Jilin's innovative contributions to China's space program.

Yuan Rui, a junior at Changchun University of Science and Technology, said he was inspired by the models of the devices, which will be helpful to his further study.

Yuan Rui says he is inspired by the models of the devices, which will be helpful to his further study. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]

Yuan Rui says he is inspired by the models of the devices, which will be helpful to his further study. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]

Besides the college students, pupils of the elementary department of Changchun Foreign Language Experimental School also attended the event.

Lv Jiarui, a third-year student, said she learned a lot about space and that the stories of the scientists behind the technological achievements instilled in her a dream to be a part of the space development.

A staff member of the institute speaks about the development of China's space program to the primary students at the event on April 24. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]

A staff member of the institute speaks about the development of China's space program to the primary students at the event on April 24. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]

China Aerospace Day, April 24, has been celebrated since 2016 to remember the achievements China has made in aerospace fields. The Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine Mechanics and Physics is the only unit holding the sub-event within the province.

According to the institute's staff, it will be open to the public on May 19 showing more advanced space devices.

On that day, academicians will give public lectures.

A lecture on space issues is held during the event on April 24. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]

A lecture on space issues is held during the event on April 24. [Photo/cnjiwang.com.cn]

图片列表:
1. Aerial event inspires students' space dreams_4.png - 尺寸: 600x435
2. Aerial event inspires students' space dreams_5.jpeg - 尺寸: 600x400
3. Aerial event inspires students' space dreams_6.jpeg - 尺寸: 600x400
