标题: BUAA to open new campus in Qingdao Oceantec Valley
网址: http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/m/qingdao/2017-02/17/content_28241412.htm

BUAA to open new campus in Qingdao Oceantec Valley

( chinadaily.com.cn )

Updated: 2017-02-17

The Qingdao Oceantec Valley Administration and Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics signed a cooperation framework agreement on Feb 14 to establish a new campus of the university in the area.

Li Qun, top official of the Qingdao municipal government, and Xu Huibin, an official from BUAA, attended the signing ceremony.

Li expressed his congratulations to the Qingdao Oceantec Valley and BUAA. He said that higher education will provide a strong boost to regional development. BUAA is recognized as the driving force behind China's aerospace and aviation industry. The new campus of BUAA will fuel the development of related industries in the Qingdao Oceantec Valley.

He added that government departments will be totally committed to the cooperation of the project in accord with the agreement.

Xu said that BUAA is a comprehensive university striving to become a world class university with particular strengths in aerospace propulsion, aerospace manufacturing and other related majors. The new campus will be established with quality and efficiency, and will provide talent and technical services for the development of the local aerospace and aviation industry.

According to the agreement, construction of the new campus will begin in May this year. The new campus is expected to enroll nearly 10,000 students across seven different majors including Aeronautics and Astronautics, Materials Science, Microelectronics, and Intelligent Manufacturing.

"Our goal is to build the new Qingdao Campus into a world renowned university and help Qingdao foster more high-level talent. We hope to promote the commercialization of the university's research findings in Qingdao," said Fang Jiancheng, vice president of BUAA.The Qingdao Oceantec Valley Administration and Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA) signs a cooperation framework agreement on Feb 14 to establish a new campus of the university in the area. [Photo/qtv.com.cn]The Qingdao Oceantec Valley. [Photo/qingdaonews.com]The Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics. [Photo/qingdaonews.com]

The Qingdao Oceantec Valley Administration and Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA) signs a cooperation framework agreement on Feb 14 to establish a new campus of the university in the area. [Photo/qtv.com.cn]

The Qingdao Oceantec Valley. [Photo/qingdaonews.com]

The Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics. [Photo/qingdaonews.com]

Qingdao blue sonata

Shandong Special:Friendly Shandong welcomes you

Qingdao's Olympic legacy sails into the future

Qingdao special: International Beer Festival bottles formula for fun

图片列表:
1. BUAA to open new campus in Qingdao Oceantec Valley_4.jpeg - 尺寸: 540x302
2. BUAA to open new campus in Qingdao Oceantec Valley_5.jpeg - 尺寸: 540x311
3. BUAA to open new campus in Qingdao Oceantec Valley_6.jpeg - 尺寸: 540x351
