标题: China launches latest satellite
网址: http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/epaper/2015-04/01/content_19973191.htm

China launches latest satellite

Updated: 2015-04-01 07:47

By Zhao Lei(China Daily USA)

China launched a new-generation satellite into space on Monday night, starting the expansion of its indigenous navigation and positioning network to global coverage.

The satellite, the 20th for the Beidou Navigation Satellite System, was sent into orbit by the Yuanzheng-1 upper stage vehicle after being lifted by a Long March-3C carrier rocket from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in Sichuan province.

The launch is the first step in China's plan to turn the navigation system's current regional service into global coverage, according to a statement issued by the center.

China launched the first Beidou satellite in 2000. The system began providing positioning, navigation, timing and short-message services to civilian users in China and surrounding areas in the Asia-Pacific region in December 2012. Currently, the system consists of 15 satellites.

The latest satellite will test a host of new technologies essential for the global transformation, including a cutting-edge navigation signaling mechanism and advanced links between satellites.

China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp, one of the major players in the nation's space activities, said in a statement that Monday's launch also marked the first flight of the Yuanzheng-1 upper stage vehicle developed by its China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology.

The independent vehicle - dubbed a "shuttle bus in space" by some experts - is capable of sending multiple spacecraft into different orbits during a single mission. It is able to ferry satellites using its own power system after reaching an initial orbit atop a rocket, said Liang Xiaohong, vice-president of the academy.

"The Yuanzheng-1 will play an important role in China's future moon and Mars exploration projects and space debris disposal tasks," he said. "In the past, our satellites had to install engines for their orbital transfer, and they carried a lot of fuel. Now the upper stage vehicle enables us to remove the engines and fuel from the satellite and prolong its life span."

The adoption of the cutting-edge spacecraft will also help to reduce costs for satellite launches and meet rising demand for spaceflight, Liang said.

zhaolei@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily USA 04/01/2015 page4)

Most Viewed

Editor's Picks

What do we know about AIIB

Full coverage of Boao Forum for Asia

Annual legislative and political advisory sessions

Spring Festival trends reflect a changing China

Patent applications lead the world

BC lures Chinese tourists

Today's Top News

PMI indicates factories back to expansion

Chinese woman charged with fraud remains in US jail

Forty-six countries seek to join AIIB

Tales of a nomad

US 'willing to work with AIIB': Lew

Silk Road connects China to the world: BOC chairman

Washington 'willing to work with AIIB'

China should police bad foreigners, too: expert

US Weekly

Geared to go

The place to be

Using existing venues built for Beijing Olympics

THE WEEK Oct 31: Z-Nation sins

Creative colored drawings embrace New Year

Chongqing collective wedding applies for Guinness records

Airplane cleaner's day

Autumn scenery of West Lake in Hangzhou

Special

Full coverage of Boao Forum for Asia

CPC Fourth Plenary Session