标题: China's first sea-based rocket blasts off, launches 7 satellites
网址: http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/global/2019-06/06/content_37477977.htm

China's first sea-based rocket blasts off, launches 7 satellites

China carried out the country's first seaborne space launch in its territorial waters in the Yellow Sea on Wednesday, opening a new chapter in its space industry.

The Long March 11 solid-propellant carrier rocket blasted off at 12:06 pm from a mobile launch platform - a modified submersible craft - in the Yellow Sea off the eastern province of Shandong and then sent seven satellites into orbit nearly 600 kilometers above the Earth.

The mission - the world's first seaborne space launch in the past five years - indicates China has the technology and capability required for such an operation, and the country has found an alternative to ground-based launch centers.

It also showed that China is striving to expand its launch service portfolio and promote its carrier rockets to more countries, especially those wishing to have their own satellite networks at affordable costs.

Before the seaborne mission, China had conducted more than 310 carrier rocket launches at its four land-based space launch centers.

Wednesday's launch also marked the first time a Chinese private company - Beijing Aerospace Satelliteherd Science and Technology - has provided monitor and tracking service for the entire launch and flight courses in a space mission.

Designed and built by the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, the Long March 11 is the first and only solid-fuel carrier rocket in the Long March family, the pillar of the country's space programs.

The model has a length of 20.8 meters, a diameter of 2 m and a liftoff weight of 58 metric tons. It is capable of sending satellites to low-Earth orbit or Sun-synchronous orbit, according to the academy, part of the State-owned space conglomerate China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp.

Its first flight was in September 2015 from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in northwestern China's Gobi Desert, ferrying four satellites to a Sun-synchronous orbit.

The rocket had performed six launches before the seaborne mission and placed 25 satellites into space in those operations. All the previous missions began at the Jiuquan center and were successful.

The mobile launch platform used in Wednesday's launch was owned and run by a Chinese maritime engineering company, which wished not to be named due to contractual obligations.

Li Tongyu, Long March 11's project manager at the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, said the Long March 11 will continue conducting sea-based launches to verify the rocket's capacity to various types of orbits.

He said the academy plans to develop and construct a coastal port dedicated to supporting seaborne launch missions as well as a dedicated launch platform - instead of the current modified one - that will be capable of lifting not only solid-propellant rockets but also liquid-propellant types, which usually are bigger and mightier than the solid-fuel models.

Jin Xin, the rocket's deputy project manager, said that in the future, each mobile launch platform will be able to carry multiple rockets and carry out launches from suitable places in China's eastern and southern seas.

Designers have begun to develop an upgraded variant of the Long March 11 called the Long March 11A, Jin said, adding that the new type will be wider and taller than its predecessor and will have greater thrust.

It will be able to send 1.5 tons of payload to a Sun-synchronous orbit at an altitude of 700 km, he said.

The world's first launch at sea was made in April 1967 with a Scout B carrier rocket, developed by the United States, from the San Marco platform of Italian-owned Luigi Broglio Space Center, off the coast of Kenya. The most recent sea launch before Wednesday took place in May 2014, when Sea Launch, a multinational joint venture, sent a Zenit-3SL rocket into orbit from the company's mobile launch platform Odyssey in the Pacific Ocean. It was carrying a communication satellite.

Compared with conventional land-based launches, a sea mission has a lower risk of causing trouble for densely populated areas along the rocket's trajectory. The method also allows launches to be made near the equator, which increases the rocket's carrying capacity, lowers launch costs and extends the life span of some satellites, Li explained.

zhaolei@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily Global 06/06/2019 page3)

Today's Top News

Most Viewed