标题: China shows military gear at LatAm expo
网址: http://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/world/2015-04/20/content_20475936.htm

China shows military gear at LatAm expo

Updated: 2015-04-20 03:29

By CHEN WEIHUA and MAO PENGFEI in Rio de Janeiro(China Daily Latin America)

A visitor (left) talks to an exhibitor from China's Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology in front of "Changzheng" rocket models at the 2015 Latin America Aerospace and Defence (LAAD) international exhibition in Rio de Janeiro on April 14. XINHUA / XU ZIJIAN

A visitor (left) talks to an exhibitor from China's Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology in front of "Changzheng" rocket models at the 2015 Latin America Aerospace and Defence (LAAD) international exhibition in Rio de Janeiro on April 14. XINHUA / XU ZIJIAN

4 State-owned firms display warships, missiles, computer systems in Brazil

Chinese military products, ranging from warships and missiles to computer equipment, were showcased in Rio de Janeiro at Latin America's largest defense and security exposition.

Four Chinese state-owned military firms, organized by China's State Administration of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense, participated in the 2015 Latin America Aerospace and Defence (LAAD) international exhibition from April 14 to April 18.

Sponsored by the Brazilian defense ministry, there were exhibitors from 71 countries, including industry giants Boeing, Saab, Embraer and Safran, as well as smaller companies and national delegations.

China Shipbuilding Industry Corp featured 64 products, with the aircraft carrier Liaoning a highlight, and Poly Technologies Inc displayed a 46-meter-long patrol ship and Rainbow 4 UAV.

China Aerospace Science and Industry Corp exhibited several models of rockets. China National Electronics Import and Export Corp (CEIEC) showed multi-function radars and anti-mine equipment.

Zhang Zhihui, from CEIEC, said his company has partnered with Brazil's state of Amazonas in its Green Amazon Project to monitor environmental protection efforts in the Amazon rain forest, as well as natural disasters and drug-related and criminal activities along its borders.

Yu Fuzhen, deputy director of Poly Technologies Inc, said he's confident that as high-level contacts between China and Latin America increase, so will the continent's "acceptance of China" and Chinese-made technologies.

Brazilian army officer Monteiro de Castro, who is in charge of choosing and purchasing military equipment, attended the exposition for the third time.

"I pay great attention to Chinese products every time," he said. "In the past few years, Chinese science and technology have developed quickly and Chinese products have both good quality and good prices.

Related Stories

Most Viewed

Editor's Picks

What do we know about AIIB

Full coverage of Boao Forum for Asia

Annual legislative and political advisory sessions

Spring Festival trends reflect a changing China

Patent applications lead the world

BC lures Chinese tourists

Today's Top News

AIIB looks to be efficient, 'green'

Bridging cultures with laughter and song

Central bank lowers reserve ratio

Envoy sees many benefits from Xi's Pakistan visit

China concerned at reports of New Zealand-US plan to spy on diplomats

Old Summer Palace may sue over controversial replica

China and the 2016US election

World Bank, IMF: will workwith AIIB

US Weekly

Geared to go

The place to be

Using existing venues built for Beijing Olympics

THE WEEK Oct 31: Z-Nation sins

Creative colored drawings embrace New Year

Chongqing collective wedding applies for Guinness records

Airplane cleaner's day

Autumn scenery of West Lake in Hangzhou

Special

Full coverage of Boao Forum for Asia

CPC Fourth Plenary Session

图片列表:
1. China shows military gear at LatAm expo_4.jpeg - 尺寸: 600x399
