标题: China's new carrier rocket succeeds in first trip
网址: http://europe.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2015-09/20/content_21929126.htm

China's new carrier rocket succeeds in first trip

Updated: 2015-09-20 11:53

(Xinhua)

A new model of China's carrier rocket Long March-6 carrying 20 micro-satellites blasts off from the launch pad at 7:01 am from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center in north China's Shanxi Province, Sept 20, 2015. The new carrier rocket will be mainly used for the launch of micro-satellites and the 20 micro-satellites will be used for space tests. [Photo/Xinhua]

A new model of China's carrier rocket Long March-6 carrying 20 micro-satellites blasts off from the launch pad at 7:01 am from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center in north China's Shanxi Province, Sept 20, 2015. The new carrier rocket will be mainly used for the launch of micro-satellites and the 20 micro-satellites will be used for space tests. [Photo/Xinhua]

TAIYUAN - China successfully launched a new model of carrier rocket, Long March-6, at 7:01 am Sunday from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center in north China's Shanxi Province.

The rocket carried 20 micro-satellites into the space, which will be used for space tests.

The new rocket is fueled by liquid propellant made of liquid oxygen and kerosene. It is China's first carrier rocket that uses fuel free of toxicity and pollution, said the source with the Shanghai Academy of Spaceflight Technology with the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, which designed the rocket.

The launch has tested the feasibility and accuracy of the rocket's design as well as other new technologies.

The new carrier rocket will be mainly used for the launch of micro-satellites.

Previous Page12345Next PagePrevious Page12345Next Page

Today's Top News

Sino-French fund to invest in markets worldwide

Foreign media welcome, Xi says

For marathon runners, it's time to shine

Japan enacts new security laws to overturn postwar pacifism

London forum advances soccer hopes

Vice-Premier Liu visits Europe to encourage cultural exchanges

Economy worries prompt Fed to hold rates steady

Overwhelmed by migrants, Croatia closes border with Serbia

Cuban scientists live and love

THE WEEK Oct 24: Excuse me while I kiss this guy

8 Chinese industries taking on global players

2014 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show

Reading in National Library over summer

Faces of triumph and defeat at athletics worlds

Hot Topics

Lunar probe ,China growth forecasts,Emission rules get tougher,China seen through 'colored lens',International board,

Editor's Picks

President Xi to meet Cameron and 'Comrade' Corbyn

Stepping up

Rural families still hope for male heirs

Blue skies over Beijing ... for now

V-Day parade for 70th WWII anniversary

Tianjin blasts: Death, damage and bravery

图片列表:
1. China's new carrier rocket succeeds in first trip_5.jpeg - 尺寸: 600x388
