标题: China indispensable for Europe's stability, development and prosperity
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202503/25/WS67e24fb1a3101d4e4dc2abb3.html

China indispensable for Europe's stability, development and prosperity

The world is experiencing unprecedented changes, with Europe facing the most significant geopolitical shift since 1945, as noted by some European scholars. While the transatlantic relationship struggles in areas like security, values and trade, the facts show that China is a reliable partner and a force that Europe can rely on.

China is a major force for Europe in upholding the international order. While the United States, with its law-of-the-jungle approach, bullies other nations and abandons treaties and international organizations, rendering the so-called "rules-based international order" a mere rhetoric. China, on the other hand, advocates for the Global Security Initiative, explores solutions to global hotspot issues, and stands with Europe in upholding multilateralism. On Ukraine, China has consistently supported peace, backing Europe in its efforts in the peace process. Amid global governance failures, China safeguards the authority and central role of the United Nations and strengthens unity and cooperation within the Global South. Committed to an equal and orderly multipolar world, China insists that all nations, big or small, strong or weak, are equal members of the international community, rejecting the notion that international affairs should be dominated by a few. Today, China is widely recognized as the world's greatest stabilizing force. Its "consensus-based" approach stands in stark contrast to the "America First" mindset.

China is a major force for Europe in driving global growth. The United States is building "small yard with high-fences" and wielding the tariff stick against the whole world. The US tariffs on the EU could worsen the bloc's economic plight. On the contrary, China's economy expanded by 5 percent in 2024, contributing about 30 percent to global growth. Starting from Dec 1, 2024, China implemented zero tariffs on 100 percent of product categories for least developed countries with which it has diplomatic relations, driving an 18.1 percent increase in imports from these countries in that month. To date, China has unilaterally granted visa-free entry to citizens of 32 European countries. China actively implements the Global Development Initiative, expands high-level opening-up, upholds the multilateral trading system, fosters an open, inclusive, and non-discriminatory international cooperation environment, and promotes inclusive economic globalization that benefits all.

China is a major force for Europe in enhancing its international competitiveness. The US technological blockades on China cannot stifle innovative thinking. Instead, they have spurred Chinese creativity, notably in AI and electric vehicles. The emergence of DeepSeek has thwarted technological hegemony and boosted Europe's confidence in autonomous development. French President Emmanuel Macron praised DeepSeek's low-cost, high-efficiency development model and hoped that similar innovations can emerge in Europe. Western media highlighted that Chinese start-ups have placed AI technology in the hands of all of humanity. In another success story, the popularity of Chinese EVs has shaken Tesla's dominance. European countries are vigorously attracting Chinese EV companies to invest in Europe and share technologies. European carmakers like Mercedes-Benz, BMW, and Volkswagen are deeply engaged with their Chinese partners.

China is a major force for Europe in advancing European integration. The United States once put forward the concepts of "New Europe" and "Old Europe" to divide the EU. Today, the United States attacks European values, openly supports anti-EU political parties, interferes in European elections, and claims that the EU was established to "screw" the United States. However, China has been a strong supporter of European integration and the EU's strategic autonomy. China regards Europe as an important pole in a multi-polar world and always stands for a prosperous Europe, a united EU, and a strong euro at times of crises.

This year marks 50 years of China-EU diplomatic relations. One of the reasons for the difficulties in China-EU relations in the past is EU's triple positioning of China as "a cooperation partner, an economic competitor and a systemic rival". A latest opinion poll in Europe shows that only 21 percent of Europeans still regard the United States as an "ally", while 43 percent see China as a "necessary cooperation partner". The "triple positioning" does not seem to align with Europe's interests or public opinion. It is time that European elites change their mindset, rise above differences, and work with China to secure a world of peace, stability and prosperity.

Zhang Siyuan is a Beijing-based commentator on international affairs, writing regularly for Xinhua News, Global Times, China Daily etc.

The views don't necessarily represent those of China Daily.

If you have a specific expertise, or would like to share your thought about our stories, then send us your writings at opinion@chinadaily.com.cn, and comment@chinadaily.com.cn.

图片列表:
1. China indispensable for Europe's stability, development and prosperity_14.png - 尺寸: 462x569
