标题: China puts Pakistani satellite into orbit
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202405/31/WS66592079a31082fc043ca21c.html

China puts Pakistani satellite into orbit

China launched a multi-functional communication satellite for Pakistan on Thursday night from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan, according to China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp (CASC), the nation's leading space contractor.

Carrying the Pakistani satellite called PakSat MM1, a Long March 3B rocket lifted off at 8:12 pm at the launch complex and soon placed the satellite into a geosynchronous orbit, the State-owned conglomerate said in a news release.

Designed and built by the China Academy of Space Technology, a CASC subsidiary in Beijing, the PakSat MM1 has a DFH-4 enhanced communication satellite structure and a designed life of about 15 years.

The spacecraft has a liftoff weight of 5.4 metric tons, and is equipped with nine antennas and 48 transponders in C, Ku, Ka, and L bands. It can provide various services such as broadcasting, regional enhanced communications, and high-throughput broadband internet services. It will cover Pakistan, parts of the Indian Ocean, the Middle East, East Africa, as well as some parts of Europe, according to China Great Wall Industry, CASC's international trade arm that arranged the launch.

After in-orbit tests, it will be delivered to Pakistan Space and Upper Atmosphere Research Commission and will provide high-quality transponders and broadband access resources for Pakistanis and numerous users in the region, and significantly enhance satellite communications capacity of Pakistan, China Great Wall Industry said in a statement.

The Long March 3B model, developed by the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, also a CASC subsidiary, is one of China most used rocket types and features good operational record.

Thursday's launch marked the 96th flight of the Long March 3B and the 524th mission of the Long March family.

图片列表:
1. China puts Pakistani satellite into orbit_16.png - 尺寸: 1020x680
2. China puts Pakistani satellite into orbit_17.png - 尺寸: 1011x761
