标题: Chinese premier meets French FM
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202503/27/WS67e567a0a3101d4e4dc2b420.html

Chinese premier meets French FM

BEIJING -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang met with French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot on Thursday in Beijing.

In the current international situation, China and France -- as independent, mature and responsible major countries -- should strengthen communication and coordination to inject more stability and certainty into the common development of the two countries and the world, Li said.

He said China is willing to work with France to follow the strategic guidance of their two heads of state, maintain close high-level exchanges, expand mutually-beneficial cooperation, and strengthen multilateral coordination on issues including climate change response to bring more benefits to the two peoples and the world.

Li noted that as staunch defenders of free trade and multilateralism, China and France, with closely intertwined economic interests, should work together to resist protectionism and unilateralism, continue strengthening cooperation with an open attitude, and give full play to their complementary advantages to add impetus to the economic development of the two countries continuously.

China has always regarded France as an important cooperation partner and stands ready to work with the country. While strengthening long-standing cooperation on aviation, aerospace and nuclear energy, they should continuously tap into cooperation potential in emerging and future industries such as the digital economy, artificial intelligence and biotechnology to foster and strengthen new economic drivers, Li said.

China hopes that France will create a fair, equitable and predictable development environment for Chinese enterprises investing in the country, he added.

This year marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and the EU. China is ready to use this as an opportunity to deepen bilateral relations, and address concerns through dialogue and consultation on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefits, Li said, expressing the hope that France will play a positive role in this regard.

Barrot said that in the face of increasing uncertainties in today's world, France and China -- as permanent members of the UN Security Council -- should shoulder their important, joint responsibility of safeguarding multilateralism.

France attaches great importance to its relations with China and is willing to work with China to actively implement the important consensus reached by their two heads of state, expand mutually beneficial cooperation in such fields as trade, investment, science and technology, and to tackle climate change and other global challenges, Barrot said.

France always adheres to strategic independence, and opposes trade protectionism and trade wars. France supports the EU and China strengthening dialogue and cooperation in the economic and trade fields, addressing the concerns of both sides in a proper manner, and exploring more positive agendas, he said.

图片列表:
1. Chinese premier meets French FM_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 1198x755
