标题: China conducts 15th space launch this year
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202503/27/WS67e4e634a3101d4e4dc2b316.html

China conducts 15th space launch this year

China launched a relay satellite from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center in Southwest China's Sichuan province late Wednesday night, according to China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp, the nation's major space contractor.

A Long March 3B carrier rocket blasted off at 11:55 pm deploying the Tianlian II-04 satellite into orbit, the State-owned company said in a news release. The mission marked the country's 15th space launch this year and the 565th flight of the Long March rocket family.

Developed by the company's China Academy of Space Technology, the satellite is tasked with providing telemetry, flight control and data relay services to manned spacecraft, remote-sensing satellites and the Tiangong space station, according to the release.

It is the fourth in the Tianlian II series, China's second generation of data relay satellites, to be deployed. The first was launched at the Xichang center in March 2019.

China's first-generation data relay satellite network, the Tianlian I, consists of five satellites. The first was launched from Xichang in April 2008. They have served several important space functions such as rendezvous and dockings in the nation's manned spaceflights.

Compared to the first-generation model, satellites in the Tianlian II series feature stronger capabilities, heavier carrying capacity and longer life spans, designers said.

The Long March 3B model, developed by the China Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, also a CASC subsidiary, is one of China's most used rocket types with good operational record. It is mainly used to launch satellites into geostationary transfer orbit and can transport 5.5 tons of payloads to such orbit. It can also send spacecraft to other kinds of orbits, such as medium-Earth and lunar transfer orbits.

图片列表:
1. China conducts 15th space launch this year_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 1198x825
