标题: Guiyang strengthens development of aerospace industry
网址: http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/m/guizhou/2017-09/19/content_32191462.htm

Guiyang strengthens development of aerospace industry

( chinadaily.com.cn )

Updated: 2017-09-19

Guiyang, capital of Guizhou provinc, has announced to deepen cooperation with the China Center for Aerospace Science and Technology International Communication and Beijing Aerospace Shuhai Technology Co.

The three parties signed a strategic cooperation agreement in Guiyang on Sept 17 to build a think tank for the aerospace industry in the city and make the aerospace industry a new impetus for the local economy.

Guiyang, the China Center for Aerospace Science and Technology International Communication and Beijing Aerospace Shuhai Technology Co sign a strategic cooperation agreement on Sept 17. [Photo/gygov.gov.cn]

Guiyang, the China Center for Aerospace Science and Technology International Communication and Beijing Aerospace Shuhai Technology Co sign a strategic cooperation agreement on Sept 17. [Photo/gygov.gov.cn]

The building of an aerospace creative industrial park, a space agriculture sightseeing park and an aerospace manufacturing park are also part of the agreement.

The Guizhou branch of Beijing Zhongke Aerospace Talent Services Co was also established at the signing ceremony.

Officials unveil the plaque for the Guizhou branch of Beijing Zhongke Aerospace Talent Services Co on Sept 17. [Photo/gygov.gov.cn]

Officials unveil the plaque for the Guizhou branch of Beijing Zhongke Aerospace Talent Services Co on Sept 17. [Photo/gygov.gov.cn]

"Guiyang will provide the best services to support the cooperation," said Chen Yan, acting mayor of Guiyang.

"Guiyang has great potential with its convenient transportation and booming big data industry," said Zhang Jianheng, vice-president of the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation. "We will meet its requirements and help it become an innovative central city."

Invest in guizhou

video

PDF

图片列表:
1. Guiyang strengthens development of aerospace industry_4.png - 尺寸: 500x374
2. Guiyang strengthens development of aerospace industry_5.jpeg - 尺寸: 500x375
