标题: HK links of trio in national delegation of aerospace scientists
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202106/24/WS60d49265a31024ad0bacb5ea.html

HK links of trio in national delegation of aerospace scientists

HONG KONG - Three young aerospace researchers, who joined a high-level delegation comprising top national aerospace brains in a trip to Hong Kong, shared their experience on the quest for science at a sharing session at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University on Thursday.

A total of 40 people joined the session, including 23 faculty members and scientists and young researchers from the university, which has been an active participant in a number of national deep-space projects.

Wang Haixiao, a scientist in the delegation, said he was inspired by the successful launch of Shenzhou 5, China's first manned spacecraft, in 2003. He signed up at Beihang University, also known as Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and later went to the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology for further studies.

To him, Hong Kong was a vantage point from which he saw the world and developed enthusiasm for space research.

Wang, who is now a member of the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation – the state-owned satellite and rocket maker ­-- said his department is willing to explore deeper collaboration with the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.

Wang Jingyu joined the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation in 2018.

She recalled at the sharing that it was in Hong Kong where she first made contact with aerospace and eventually followed that path.

Wang who received her master's degree in engineering at HKU in 2017, interned at a local satellite business before joining the China Academy of Space Technology Corporation in 2018. She was involved in the mission of the Long March-5 rocket for Chang'e-5 probe. She shared her experience and what life was like for over two months at the launch site.

The experience of seeing her predecessors pursuing their personal dreams by combining it with the national interest have given her a strong sense of motivation.

The best thing, she said, she can take out of this experience is to participate in the nation's aerospace development, bearing in mind the good qualities of her predecessors.

Wang said she hopes more of Hong Kong's youngsters can join in the country's space missions with patriotism and curiosity.

Li Long, who has been with the China Academy of Space Technology Corporation for five years, has a doctorate from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. Witnessing the country's remarkable progress in space exploration in recent years, Li said Hong Kong has a clear advantage with its innovative academic atmosphere and can contribute to the country's space research in many aspects.

He noted that Hong Kong lacks an industrial support to allow such research and innovation to come to fruition. Li is a good case in point as he didn't know what he could do with his research area in aerospace but after joining the corporation, he found that there were extensive applications in his research field.

It takes many setbacks before one can apply basic research to aerospace projects, Li said. For research, it is always good to be innovative; however, for engineering projects, stability and precision are needed as there can be no mistakes on the ground, he said.

"It is a promising industry. Everyone can find his or her own position in it," he quoted Qi Faren, the chief designer of China's first manned Shenzhou spacecraft, as telling students.

图片列表:
1. HK links of trio in national delegation of aerospace scientists_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 800x533
