标题: Kenyans win Belt and Road speech contest
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202310/16/WS652cfb53a31090682a5e8d06.html

Kenyans win Belt and Road speech contest

Kenya's first female locomotive driver, Concilia Owire, has won the 2023 "The Belt and Road: My China Story" Speech competition, organized by Kenya-China Economic and Trade Association.

The final contest, held on Friday in Nairobi, coincides with the 10th anniversary of the Belt and Road Initiative. This year also marks the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Kenya.

This competition stands as a tribute to the exceptional contributions made by more than 22,000 Kenyan employees of Chinese enterprises operating in Kenya who have tirelessly worked towards strengthening Sino-Kenyan relations, Kenya-China Economic and Trade Association said.

Owire, who works at Afristar Railway Operation Company, the operator of the China-built Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) that connects the capital Nairobi and Mombasa, shared with audiences her inspiring journey to becoming a locomotive driver, a story that impressed the judges during the final competition.

Owire received a scholarship from the China Road and Bridge Corporation in 2016 to study locomotive engineering and later went to China to further her studies, before returning to Kenya in 2017 and becoming a driver of the maiden trip of the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR railway, with former president Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto, now president, on board.

Gisemba Gloria, representing the China Road and Bridge Corporation; and Jeanne Ong'iyo from Moja Express Way, winning the second prize; while the third prize was awarded to Mirriam Kirimi from the China Energy International Group Company Limited, Maureen Kobia from Afristar Railway Operation Company and David Maina from the China Aerospace Construction Group. All of them shared their experiences and credited their contributions to friendly cooperation between the two countries and their perspective on BRI.

Sixty participants emerged during the preliminary rounds of the competition, with 10 contestants taking part in the final contest on Friday.

Over the past 10 years since the BRI was proposed, Chinese companies have completed a large number of major infrastructure projects across the world, resulting increased connectivity and exchanges. In Kenya, landmark projects such as the SGR and Nairobi Express Way have greatly improved transportation and facilitated economic and social development in the East African country.

图片列表:
1. Kenyans win Belt and Road speech contest_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 1200x800
2. Kenyans win Belt and Road speech contest_15.jpeg - 尺寸: 1200x800
