标题: Mexico holds hearing on 'nonhuman corpses'
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202309/15/WS65039a79a310d2dce4bb5d61.html

Mexico holds hearing on 'nonhuman corpses'

Supposed aliens landed in Mexico's Congress but there were no saucer-shaped UFOs hovering over the historic building or bright green invaders like those seen in Hollywood films.

The specter of little green men visited Mexico City as lawmakers heard testimony on Tuesday from individuals suggesting the possibility that extraterrestrial beings might exist. The researchers hailed from Mexico, the United States, Japan and Brazil.

The session, unprecedented in the Mexican Congress, took place two months after a similar one before the US Congress in which a former Air Force intelligence officer claimed his country has probably been aware of "nonhuman" activity since the 1930s.

Mexican journalist Jaime Maussan presented the display boxes with the purported mummified remains of two "nonhuman beings", apparently found in Peru in 2017. The specimens have humanlike body form.

"They are nonhuman beings. We don't want to call them extraterrestrials because we don't know yet," Maussan said during the session called by ruling party lawmaker Sergio Gutierrez, who defended the event as being in the "public interest".

Maussan cited carbon dating analysis by the National Autonomous University of Mexico and said "these beings are around 1,000 years old".

Jose de Jesus Zalce Benitez, director of the Scientific Institute for Health of the Mexican Navy, said that X-rays, 3D reconstruction and DNA analysis had been carried out. "I can affirm that these have no relation to human beings," he said.

In 2017, Maussan made similar claims in Peru, but a report by the Peruvian prosecutor's office had found that the corpses were actually "dolls covered with a mixture of paper and synthetic glue to simulate the presence of skin".

China has yet to find any evidence about the existence of extraterrestrial beings during its space activities, according to a statement made by China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp, the country's dominant space contractor, on Zhihu, a Chinese question-and-answer platform.

AGENCIES—CHINA DAILY

图片列表:
1. Mexico holds hearing on 'nonhuman corpses'_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 1198x806
