标题: National security exhibits on display in HK gallery
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202408/07/WS66b2c390a3104e74fddb8c9d.html

National security exhibits on display in HK gallery

A national security-themed gallery, the first of its kind in Hong Kong, will open to the public for free on Wednesday.

At the gallery's opening ceremony on Tuesday, officials emphasized that safeguarding national security and seeking economic development are priorities for the special administrative region's long-term stability and prosperity.

The gallery, in the Hong Kong Museum of History in Tsim Sha Tsui, covers over 1,100 square meters and is expected to record 100,000 visits every year, according to Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Secretary for Security Chris Tang Ping-keung.

Divided into six zones, the exhibition includes the history of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong's national security laws and the nation's unwavering support for Hong Kong.

Exhibits include the national flag that flew in Beijing's Tian'anmen Square on the day the National Security Law for Hong Kong was implemented, an official replica of an oil painting that depicts the ceremony at the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, and some models of China's aerospace and deep-sea scientific facilities.

There is a mini-cinema playing national security films, and some interactive games will also be offered to give visitors a deeper understanding of multiple aspects of national security.

During the opening ceremony, John Lee Ka-chiu, chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, said this year is the 10th anniversary of President Xi Jinping's proposal of a "holistic approach to national security", and also a milestone year for Hong Kong to fulfill its constitutional responsibility of completing local legislation under Article 23 of the Basic Law.

Today, Hong Kong has bid farewell to turbulence and effectively plugged the loophole in national security protection, and is in its best period to fully boost the economy and seek development, Lee added.

He underscored the importance of enhancing national security education to create a favorable environment for high-quality economic development.

Lee said he hopes that institutions, organizations, schools and youth groups can arrange visits to the gallery.

Zheng Yanxiong, director of the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, said Hong Kong has entered a new stage, going from chaos to order, and that safeguarding national security remains crucial for the city to drive economic growth.

He said the gallery will strengthen societal consensus on protecting national security.

图片列表:
1. National security exhibits on display in HK gallery_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 1199x703
