标题: Nation's top aerospace experts to give talks in HK
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202106/22/WS60d1a67da31024ad0bacabb8.html

Nation's top aerospace experts to give talks in HK

Starting Wednesday, China's top aerospace scientists and engineers are expected to give face-to-face talks at some universities and secondary schools in Hong Kong.

According to the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, three distinguished scientists who participated in China's space exploration programs will give lectures on their experience in events to be held on Wednesday and Thursday.

The lecturers are Qi Faren, the chief designer of Shenzhou spaceship; Xie Jun, the deputy chief designer of the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System and chief designer of BeiDou's third-generation satellite; and Zhang He, executive director of the Chang'e 4 probe project. The lectures will also be broadcast live.

Two more lectures will be held at the University of Hong Kong on Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morning.

According to the HKU's website, three other scientists – Hu Hao, chief designer of the third stage of the nation's Lunar Exploration Project; Long Lehao, chief designer of China's Long March Rockets Series; and Sun Zezhou, chief designer of Tianwen 1 – will give talks at these two lectures.

The scientists' delegation will also bring along soil samples collected from the moon during China's fifth lunar exploration mission in late 2020, local Chinese-language newspaper Ta Kung Pao reported. The lunar soil will be displayed at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre from Sunday through early July.

The events were mainly co-organized by the Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the HKSAR government, the China Association for Science and Technology, Bauhinia Culture Holdings, the National Museum of China and the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation.

图片列表:
1. Nation's top aerospace experts to give talks in HK_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 800x450
