标题: Space expert inspires students at book fair
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202307/21/WS64b9c06ca31035260b817a42.html

Space expert inspires students at book fair

Leading aerospace expert Zhao Xiaojin encouraged Hong Kong students to learn more about the nation's efforts to explore the universe and welcomed them to continue improving their skills and contribute to the nation's space missions.

Zhao, an academician with the International Academy of Astronautics, made the remarks at the Hong Kong Book Fair on Thursday during a book-sharing session, which was attended by over 60 students and teachers from three Hong Kong primary and secondary schools — Pui Kiu College, Heung To Secondary School (Tseung Kwan O) and HKFEW Wong Cho Bau Secondary School.

Zhao introduced the audience to his new book, which features the development history and achievements of China's space technology. He and the book's publishers donated copies to the schools.

After the book-sharing session, all the students were eager to get Zhao's autograph, and he signed each book and took photos with all of them.

During the activity, he also returned three paintings to Hong Kong students who made and sent them to national experts two years ago.

In 2021, a team of the nation's top aerospace scientists visited Hong Kong and gave lectures at local universities and secondary schools. Some students made paintings about China's space exploration missions and sent them to the experts.

Later, the astronauts of the Shenzhou XIII spacecraft took three paintings with them into space.

Zhao said he was pleased and honored to come to Hong Kong to chat with students after two years. He spoke about the aerospace industry and the importance of developing it.

He mentioned that China's aerospace industry has become one of the world's most advanced in recent years, and that with the Beidou Navigation Satellite System, for example, China's satellite navigation industry has flourished, now providing service to more than 120 countries.

Zhao said that technological competition in space and the struggle for space dominance have become a focal point among aeronautic powerhouses.

Unlike some Western countries' advocacy of controlling space, China aims to utilize space for peaceful purposes and to enhance the well-being of humanity, he said.

Zhao also thanked Hong Kong scientists for their contributions to the aviation industry, including the teams of professor Yung Kaileung and Wu Bo of Hong Kong Polytechnic University, who have undertaken important work in China's lunar and Mars exploration missions.

He called on the Hong Kong students to study hard and master versatile skills.

"We are waiting for you and invite you to contribute to China's aerospace industry," he said.

Huang Ling-yuet, a sixth grader at Pui Kiu College who helped make the paintings, said the exchange with national scientists two years ago remains a vivid memory and that she never thought her painting would be taken on Shenzhou XIII. She said that she felt honored.

Huang told China Daily that she very much admires astronauts and believes their work is amazing.

She said she participates in the aerospace interest group at school and mentioned that her sister went to the aerospace base in Sichuan province some time ago.

"I am very envious about that," she said.

Huang hopes in the future to study an aerospace-related major and engage in aerospace research and development. She was thrilled to get Zhao's book and his autograph.

"I will definitely read this book thoroughly," she said.

Yang Huan, a teacher at Pui Kiu College, said the sharing session was very meaningful to Hong Kong teenagers and that the book may inspire young people to contribute to the nation's aerospace development.

The students responded positively to the activity, were deeply inspired by the persevering spirit of the astronauts and can't wait to read the book, she said.

She also mentioned that Pui Kiu College organized activities to inspire students' love for aerospace, to increase their understanding of the development and achievements of the nation's aerospace achievements and to cultivate their national identity.

The sharing session was jointly held by Sino United Publishing and China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp.

Other guests at the meeting included: He Jinhui, director of the department of education and science in the central government's liaison office; Ying Zhongwei, assistant president of Sino United Publishing; and Mu Guoxin, secretary-general of the Fifth Academy of China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp.

图片列表:
1. Space expert inspires students at book fair_14.jpeg - 尺寸: 1199x858
