标题: Space exploration for betterment of humankind
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202304/24/WS644640c6a310b6054facf77d.html

Space exploration for betterment of humankind

Monday marked China’s eighth Space Day, a day to celebrate the country’s achievements in space exploration and research, and ponder how to carry forward the spirit of space exploration for the benefit of humankind.

China designated April 24 as Space Day in 2016 to mark the launch of the country’s first satellite, Dongfanghong 1 on the same day in 1970.

As the backbone of the air space industry, the General Design Department of China Aerospace Science and Industry Corp Second Academy, which was founded in 1958, advances the spirit of space exploration, remains true to the country’s original aspiration and has been carrying forward the mission of space research.

The aerospace scientists remain committed to the mission of building up China as a space power, and making significant advancements in science and technology.

Apart from overcoming daunting challenges and difficulties, the younger scientists and technicians with the spirit of space exploration, heighten their sense of dedication, adopt a realistic approach to space science, see the big picture, and promote innovation.

In fact, with solid cultural and spiritual support, China is marching toward into a space power, and opening a new chapter in space defense system in the new era. Also, there is a need to boost the high-quality development of the space industry and reduce costs of and increase returns on space research. It is important that the space industry, along with the overall science and technology sector, to better safeguard China’s national security.

Moreover, a holistic approach should be adopted to further develop the space industry and advance the overall national defense strategy, because a holistic approach would mobilize and guide different sectors to take part in and contribute to not only the space industry’s development but also the coordination and overall planning of relevant activities.

China is building a strategic space science and technology force, and promoting innovations to strengthen the weak links and advance cutting-edge technologies through rigorous research and development in equipment needed to build space labs, space vehicles and other apparatus. But while doing so, the nation needs to accelerate the integration of different facilities, optimize resource allocation, and facilitate the growth of new forms and business models for the space industry.

These measures will help raise the quality and overall performance of the space industry.

Furthermore, it is important to strengthen team-building and improve the personnel training mechanism to cultivate a large number of outstanding young scientists, while holding in high esteem the older generation of aerospace scientists and technicians and passing on their stories and spirit to the younger generation.

In short, the country needs to carry forward the spirit of space exploration, further develop the space industry, strengthen the science and technology sector and build the people into a powerful global force to pave the way for the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.

The author is director of the General Design Department of the China Aerospace Science and Industry Corp Second Academy.

The views don’t necessarily reflect those of China Daily.

图片列表:
1. Space exploration for betterment of humankind_14.png - 尺寸: 1109x628
