标题: What delegates say
网址: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202210/23/WS63547d1ca310fd2b29e7dfe2.html

What delegates say

China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp has set three goals for its future development — upgrading the existing rocket fleet and building new models with stronger carrying capacity; advancing crucial projects including manned expeditions to the moon, establishing a lunar research outpost, returning samples from Mars and exploring asteroids; and fostering innovation in scientific and technological frontiers to inject new momentum in China's space sector.

Wu Yansheng, chairman of China Aerospace Science and Technology Corp

In recent years, China has been vigorously developing new digital infrastructure and digital industries, which have consolidated the base of its digital transformation. Scientific research institutions like us are tackling key problems, researching and designing our own technologies, and hoping to avoid detours. It is the joint efforts of all parties that have brought together China's digital transformation. This has given us the confidence to stand together with developed countries in the new round of industrial reform.

Zhu Min, director of the Informatization and Industrialization Integration Research Institute at the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology

Our job is to use quantum mechanics to serve our needs and protect the security of our daily communications. Over the past 10 years, China has established an integrated quantum communication network measuring over 10,000 kilometers in total length. The network integrates fiber optics on the ground with China's quantum communications satellite Micius. The technology has provided ultra-secure communications for users in finance, energy and government affairs. My team and I will create more advanced, mature and self-sufficient technologies to safeguard information security for the country and society.

Zhou Lei, project director of QuantumCTek

The Hodo plant has transformed into a smart factory that is equipped with 5G and the industrial internet, and production efficiency has increased by more than 30 percent compared with a traditional factory. At our sportswear factory, it takes only 48 hours from the placing of an order to delivering the final product. The smart factory has significantly increased our market competitiveness.

Zhou Haijiang, chairman of the Hodo Group

Even though it takes less than five seconds for a train to pass through the last 173 meters of Humaling Tunnel of the Lanzhou-Chongqing Railway, it took us six years to complete this part of the project as the team faced potential risks of frequent tunnel collapses. Many foreign experts came to the site and told us that this was an impossible task. But in the end, we successfully constructed this part of the project independently after six years of efforts.

Li Shaojie, deputy manager for the Nanchong project at the third branch of Beijing-based China Railway 19th Bureau Corp